GRC roles do not operate fully independently.
Thinking back to how we said GRC and security GRC are a set of interrelated processes,
it's important to understand that each role's activities can
have a direct effect on other parts of the GRC organization.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Well, what happens if you decide to change a policy?
Assume for a moment that as a governance professional,
you decide to make a change to a policy.
Maybe you decide that all user cell phones must be provided by the organization,
you can no longer bring your own device.
That makes sense to you because that way the company has more control over what
communication goes in and out through devices they own just like computers.
Let's think about a few things that can happen as a result of that decision.
What if the organization has never issued a cell phone to any employee?
Now the company has to buy cell phones for everybody.
How are we going to make an audit to make sure that that policy is in place?
If we're in the GRC mindset,
what are you thinking right now?
I hope we're thinking,
does that policy change align with corporate strategy?
Did a risk professional identify cell phones as a risk?
If so, maybe that's what precipitated the change.
Maybe it was a compliance requirement for some new standard.
The point here is that each role's actions can have
a ripple effect on the organization as a whole and on all the other GRC roles.
As much as individual roles are focused on specific tasks,
they must also work together to ensure that
their work aligns with other professionals in the GRC organization.
As we move through the remaining lessons in this course,
we'll talk more about how GRC functions affect each other.
But for now, here's some common examples of where GRC functions interrelate.
Governance is focused on policies and procedures that effect controls.
Risk management, they ensure controls mitigate risk,
but also align with compliance obligations.
Compliance, they ensure that their goals align with organizational strategy,
that same strategy set by governance professionals.
The individual functions relate to each other,
but each role keys off one another.
I want to spend just a brief moment on GRC software here.
Now, we're not going to be spending a lot of time on GRC software, not in this course.
But it is a great place to one,
acknowledge that it exists, and then two,
explain that the use of GRC software can help
organization stay aligned in its practice of GRC.
It can provide a number of tangible benefits.
It can serve as a central repository for GRC information,
it can improve collaboration,
create efficiency, and reduce cost.
Now at the same time,
GRC software can create challenges if
an organization has a relatively immature GRC practice.
Now, I've seen organizations before where they're
spending a lot of money on GRC software,
but it wasn't being used at all.
The big reason for that is that the governance, risk,
and compliance teams all had separate ideas as to how GRC should be managed.
If your company doesn't already have GRC software,
I'd likely tell you to get a process in place first and then turn to software after.